chore(docs): Update sourcing from agility cms (#30966)
gatsbyjs/gatsby: docs/docs/sourcing-from-agilitycms.md

Check our [docs](https://help.agilitycms.com/hc/en-us/articles/360039879872) for up-to-date documentation.

## What is Agility CMS?

> [Agility CMS](https://agilitycms.com/) is a flexible headless Content Management System (CMS) with an infinite number of ways to configure and set up your pages and content. Agility lets you define custom content types, relationships and pages. This is called Content Architecture, and you can reuse this content for your websites and apps. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Agility CMS](https://agilitycms.com/) is a flexible headless Content Management System (CMS) with an infinite number of ways to configure and set up your pages and content. Agility lets you define custom content types, relationships and pages. This is called Content Architecture, and you can reuse this content for your websites and apps.
```

Agility believes that a successful website balances the **User Experience (UX)**, **Editor Experience (EX)**, and **Developer Experience (DX)**.

While Gatsby tends to handle **UX** and **DX** quite well, editors are not always comfortable working directly in a codebase. They prefer to manage their sitemap and see what content is on which pages. Using Gatsby with a headless CMS like Agility allows for this.

Agility aims to empower and improve the **Editor Experience** by providing built-in [**Page Management**](https://help.agilitycms.com/hc/en-us/articles/360055805831). This means developers can build UI Components and leave editors to compose their pages.

[Learn more about Agility CMS and Gatsby](https://help.agilitycms.com/hc/en-us/articles/360039879872)

## Getting Started

This guide walks you through the steps involved in setting up a Gatsby site that fetches content from Agility CMS.

### Step 1: Create a free Agility account

> In order to showcase best practices, evaluate, and help onboard new users when using Agility CMS, we recommend signing up for our pre-configured Blog Template. This template has a few Pages along with some Page Modules and Content Models already set for you to help support a familiar blogging experience.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to showcase best practices, evaluate, and help onboard new users when using Agility CMS, this guide uses the pre-configured Blog Template. This template has a few Pages along with some Page Modules and Content Models already set for you to help support a familiar blogging experience.
```

npm install
```

### Step 3: Authenticate your Gatsby site with Agility

> Make a copy of .env.development.example file called .env.development.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Make a copy of `.env.development.example` file called `.env.development`.
```

```shell
cp .env.development.example .env.development
```

> Add your AGILITY_GUID and AGILITY_API_KEY variable values to the `.env.development` file, you can find these in the Content Manager by going to [Settings](https://manager.agilitycms.com/settings/apikeys)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Add your `AGILITY_GUID` and `AGILITY_API_KEY` variable values to the `.env.development` file, you can find these in the Content Manager by going to [Settings](https://manager.agilitycms.com/settings/apikeys)
```

> ```shell

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```text:title=.env.development
```

# Your Instance Id
AGILITY_GUID=

# Your Preview API Key (recommended) - you can get this from the Getting Started Page in Agility CMS. It starts with defaultpreview.
AGILITY_API_KEY=

# If using your Preview API Key, set this to true
AGILITY_API_ISPREVIEW=true
```

### Step 4: Running the site locally

Once your environment variables have been added for development, you can run the site locally:

```shell
gatsby develop
```

> If successful, your site's build should complete and you be able to view the site in your browser on http://localhost:8000. You can also run the GraphiQL IDE at http://localhost:8000/___graphql. The GraphiQL IDE will help you explore the app’s data, including data from Agility.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If successful, your site's build should complete and you be able to view the site in your browser on `http://localhost:8000`. You can also run the GraphiQL IDE at `http://localhost:8000/___graphql`. The GraphiQL IDE will help you explore the app’s data, including data from Agility.
```

For production, follow the same steps using the `.env.production` file and your Live API Key.

## How it works

### Sourcing and Querying Agility Content in Gatsby

Sourcing content from Agility into your Gatsby site uses the [gatsby-source-agilitycms](https://github.com/agility/gatsby-source-agilitycms) plugin which will synchronize all of your content, page modules, sitemaps and pages, and make them available via GraphQL.

The source plugin uses the [@agility/content-sync](https://github.com/agility/agility-sync-sdk) npm package which ensures that only content that has changed is updated. It keeps things in-sync for you. This means your first build will download all of your content, while subsequent builds only update what has changed. This enables incremental builds and results in bleeding-edge, fast build times.

> To query content from Agility CMS, you would query allAgility<contentTypeName>, for example, allAgilityPost, then select what fields you want to retrieve for each item. An example can be seen here in the [agilitycms-gatsby-starter](https://github.com/agility/agilitycms-gatsby-starter/blob/main/src/components/agility-pageModules/PostsListing.jsx):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To query content from Agility CMS, you would query `allAgility<contentTypeName>`, for example, `allAgilityPost`, then select what fields you want to retrieve for each item. An example can be seen here in the [agilitycms-gatsby-starter](https://github.com/agility/agilitycms-gatsby-starter/blob/main/src/components/agility-pageModules/PostsListing.jsx):
```

> ```shell

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```graphql
```

query {
  posts: allAgilityPost {
    nodes {
      customFields {
        title
        date(formatString: "MMMM DD, YYYY")
        image {
          url
          label
        }
        content
      }
    }
  }
}
```
[Learn more about Sourcing and Querying Agility Content in Gatsby](https://help.agilitycms.com/hc/en-us/articles/360043003951)

### How Pages Work

We believe that Editors should have full control over their website pages and not rely on a developer. 

> The gatsby-source-agilitycms plugin makes it easy to source content, but it also generates your Pages for you based off of your sitemap in Agility CMS. This means that editors in the CMS control what pages are available, what their URLs are, and exactly what UI components (we call these Page Modules) make up each page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `gatsby-source-agilitycms` plugin makes it easy to source content, but it also generates your Pages for you based off of your sitemap in Agility CMS. This means that editors in the CMS control what pages are available, what their URLs are, and exactly what UI components (we call these Page Modules) make up each page.
```

> Each page in Agility is composed and generated dynamically at _build-time_ using a **masterPageTemplate** that you define in your **gatsby-config.js** plugin options.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each page in Agility is composed and generated dynamically at _build-time_ using a **masterPageTemplate** that you define in your `gatsby-config.js` plugin options.
```

> *gatsby-config.js*:
> 
> ```shell

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```js:title=gatsby-config.js
```

module.exports = {
  siteMetadata: {
    title: "Agility CMS Gatsby Starter",
  },
  plugins: [
    ...
    {
      //the name of the plugin
      resolve: "@agility/gatsby-source-agilitycms", 
      //the options for our plugin
      options: {
        ...
         //the page template that will be used to render Agility CMS pages
        masterPageTemplate: "./src/AgilityPage.jsx"
      },
    },
    ...
  ]
}
```

> **AgilityPage.jsx:**
> 
> ```shell

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```jsx:title=src/AgilityPage.jsx
```

  ...
  return (
    <>
      <SEO
        title={viewModel.page.title}
        description={viewModel.page.seo.metaDescription}
        keywords={viewModel.page.seo.metaKeywords}
        ogImage={viewModel.dynamicPageItem?.customFields?.image?.url}
      />
      <PreviewBar isPreview={viewModel.isPreview} />
      <div id="site-wrapper" className="flex flex-col min-h-screen">
        <SiteHeader
          languageCode={viewModel.languageCode}
          isMultiLanguage={viewModel.isMultiLanguage}
        />
        <main className="flex-grow">
          <AgilityPageTemplate {...viewModel} />
        </main>
        <SiteFooter />
      </div>
    </>
  )
}

export default AgilityPage
```

[Learn more about How Agility Pages Work in Gatsby](https://help.agilitycms.com/hc/en-us/articles/360043035211)

### How Page Modules Work

Page Modules in Agility CMS are the functional components that make up a page. Editors use these to compose what type of content is on each page and in what order they appear. Developers define what page modules are available in the CMS and what fields they have. Each module defined in Agility CMS should correspond to a React Component in your Gatsby site.

> In the [agilitycms-gatsby-starter](https://github.com/agility/agilitycms-gatsby-starter) site, the name of the page module is used to find a corresponding react component that matches the same name. If a match is found, that component is dynamically imported and rendered.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the [agilitycms-gatsby-starter](https://github.com/agility/agilitycms-gatsby-starter) site, the name of the page module is used to find a corresponding React component that matches the same name. If a match is found, that component is dynamically imported and rendered.
```

> For example, if a module has a reference name of RichTextArea in the CMS, then while the page is being rendered by the gatsby-source-agilitycms plugin, it will look for `./src/components/agility-pageModules/RichTextArea.jsx` in the `./src/components/agility-pageModules` directory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, if a module has a reference name of RichTextArea in the CMS, then while the page is being rendered by the gatsby-source-agilitycms plugin, it will look for `src/components/agility-pageModules/RichTextArea.jsx` in the `src/components/agility-pageModules` directory.
```

> **RichTextArea.jsx:**
> 
> ```shell

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```jsx:title=src/components/agility-pageModules/RichTextArea.jsx
```

import React from "react"
import { renderHTML } from "../../agility/utils"

const RichTextArea = ({ module }) => {
  // get module fields
  const { customFields } = module

  return (
    <div className="relative px-8">
      <div className="max-w-2xl mx-auto my-12 md:mt-18 lg:mt-20">
        <div
          className="prose max-w-full mx-auto"
          dangerouslySetInnerHTML={renderHTML(customFields.textblob)}
        />
      </div>
    </div>
  )
}

export default RichTextArea
```

[Learn more about How Agility Page Modules Work in Gatsby](https://help.agilitycms.com/hc/en-us/articles/360043037491)

### How Page Templates Work

Page Templates in Agility CMS are how developers can differentiate the styles of certain types of pages, and define where on the page that editors can add Modules (functional components of the page that editors control). Some sites may only have a single page template and this is re-used across the site, others may have other templates to allow for more flexible layouts.

> In the [agilitycms-gatsby-starter](https://github.com/agility/agilitycms-gatsby-starter) site, the Name of the Page Template is used to find a corresponding react component that matches the same name. If a match is found, that component is dynamically imported and rendered.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the [agilitycms-gatsby-starter](https://github.com/agility/agilitycms-gatsby-starter) site, the Name of the Page Template is used to find a corresponding React component that matches the same name. If a match is found, that component is dynamically imported and rendered.
```

> For example, if a Page Template has a reference name of MainTemplate in the CMS, then while the page is being rendered by the gatsby-source-agilitycms plugin, it will look for ./src/components/agility-pageTemplates/MainTemplate.jsx in the ./src/components/agility-pageTemplates directory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, if a Page Template has a reference name of MainTemplate in the CMS, then while the page is being rendered by the `gatsby-source-agilitycms` plugin, it will look for `src/components/agility-pageTemplates/MainTemplate.jsx` in the `src/components/agility-pageTemplates` directory.
```

> **MainTemplate.jsx:**

Reviewer: Delete this

> ```shell

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```jsx:title=src/components/agility-pageTemplates/MainTemplate.jsx
```

const MainTemplate = props => {
  return (
    <div id="main-template">
      <ContentZone name="MainContentZone" {...props} getModule={getModule} />
    </div>
  )
}
export default MainTemplate
```

[Learn more about How Agility Page Templates Work in Gatsby](https://help.agilitycms.com/hc/en-us/articles/360043038271)

### Resolving Linked Content

While you are sourcing and querying content in gatsby, you are likely to come across a scenario where you need to retrieve a content item and its related content. In Agility CMS, Linked Content fields are used to related content to one another in various ways.

When querying a Post, for example, you may want to also retrieve the details for the Category. On your Post GraphQL node, you may notice a category property, however, it will only contain a contentID reference, not the entire node representing the Category. You'll need to resolve this Linked Content when you need it.

In the [agilitycms-gatsby-starter](https://github.com/agility/agilitycms-gatsby-starter), we resolve Linked Content by using [Gatsby Resolvers](https://www.gatsbyjs.org/blog/2019-03-04-new-schema-customization/).

> Resolvers are added to your gatsby-node.js in your site, and they allow you to add a new field to your content node which will handle resolving your Linked Content reference. This means you are telling GraphQL, when you query a specific property on a node, it will actually run a function to go and get your Linked Content and return it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Resolvers are added to your `gatsby-node.js` in your site, and they allow you to add a new field to your content node which will handle resolving your Linked Content reference. This means you are telling GraphQL, when you query a specific property on a node, it will actually run a function to go and get your Linked Content and return it.
```

An example of this can be found [here](https://github.com/agility/agilitycms-gatsby-starter/blob/main/gatsby-node.js) in the starter site:

> **gatsby-node.js:**
> 
> ```shell

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```js:title=gatsby-node.js
```

//CREATE RESOLVERS

exports.createResolvers = args => {
  const {
    createResolvers,
    getNode,
    createNodeId,
    createNode,
    createContentDigest,
    configOptions,
  } = args

  // here we use resolvers to resolve the data we need for linked content
  const resolvers = {
    // on the 'agilityPost' node type
    agilityPost: {
      // get the sitemap node that represents this item ( i.e. /blog/my-blog-post )
      sitemapNode: agility.getDynamicPageItemSitemapNode(),

      // get the category
      linkedContent_agilityCategory: agility.getLinkedContentItem({
        type: "agilityCategory",
        linkedContentFieldName: "category",
      }),
    },
  }
  createResolvers(resolvers)
}
```

### How Images Work

With the release of [Gatsby V3](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/blog/gatsby-v3/) and the new [Gatsby Image Plugin](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/plugins/gatsby-plugin-image), we were able to create `gatsby-image-agilitycms`. This is a custom image component that takes images stored within Agility CMS and handles all of the hard parts of displaying responsive images that follow best practices for performance on your website or application.

> ```shell

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```jsx
```

```shell
cp .env.development.example .env.development
```

Add your `AGILITY_GUID` and `AGILITY_API_KEY` variable values to the `.env.development` file, you can find these in the Content Manager by going to [Settings](https://manager.agilitycms.com/settings/apikeys).

```text:title=.env.development
# Your Instance Id
AGILITY_GUID=

# Your Preview API Key (recommended) - you can get this from the Getting Started Page in Agility CMS. It starts with defaultpreview.
AGILITY_API_KEY=

# If using your Preview API Key, set this to true
AGILITY_API_ISPREVIEW=true
```

### Step 4: Running the site locally

Once your environment variables have been added for development, you can run the site locally:

```shell
gatsby develop
```

If successful, your site's build should complete and you be able to view the site in your browser on `http://localhost:8000`. You can also run the GraphiQL IDE at `http://localhost:8000/___graphql`. The GraphiQL IDE will help you explore the app’s data, including data from Agility.

For production, follow the same steps using the `.env.production` file and your Live API Key.

## How it works

### Sourcing and Querying Agility Content in Gatsby

> Sourcing content from Agility into your Gatsby site uses the [gatsby-source-agilitycms](https://github.com/agility/gatsby-source-agilitycms) plugin which will synchronize all of your content, page modules, sitemaps and pages, and make them available via GraphQL.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can source content from Agility CMS into your Gatsby site with [`gatsby-source-agilitycms`](https://github.com/agility/gatsby-source-agilitycms) which will synchronize all of your content, page modules, sitemaps and pages, and make them available via GraphQL.
```

> The source plugin uses the [@agility/content-sync](https://github.com/agility/agility-sync-sdk) npm package which ensures that only content that has changed is updated. It keeps things in-sync for you. This means your first build will download all of your content, while subsequent builds only update what has changed. This enables incremental builds and results in bleeding-edge, fast build times.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The source plugin uses [`@agility/content-sync`](https://github.com/agility/agility-sync-sdk) which ensures that only content that has changed is updated. It keeps things in-sync for you. This means your first build will download all of your content, while subsequent builds only update what has changed. This enables incremental builds and results in bleeding-edge, fast build times.
```

To query content from Agility CMS, you would query `allAgility<contentTypeName>`, for example, `allAgilityPost`, then select what fields you want to retrieve for each item. An example can be seen here in the [agilitycms-gatsby-starter](https://github.com/agility/agilitycms-gatsby-starter/blob/main/src/components/agility-pageModules/PostsListing.jsx):

```graphql
query {
  posts: allAgilityPost {
    nodes {
      customFields {
        title
        date(formatString: "MMMM DD, YYYY")
        image {
          url
          label
        }
        content
      }
    }
  }
}
```
[Learn more about Sourcing and Querying Agility Content in Gatsby](https://help.agilitycms.com/hc/en-us/articles/360043003951)

### How Pages Work

> We believe that Editors should have full control over their website pages and not rely on a developer. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion 
```

Marketing language

> The `gatsby-source-agilitycms` plugin makes it easy to source content, but it also generates your Pages for you based off of your sitemap in Agility CMS. This means that editors in the CMS control what pages are available, what their URLs are, and exactly what UI components (we call these Page Modules) make up each page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `gatsby-source-agilitycms` plugin makes it easy to source content, but it also generates your Pages for you based off of your sitemap in Agility CMS. This means that editors in the CMS control what pages are available, what their URLs are, and exactly what UI components (Agility CMS calls these Page Modules) make up each page.
```

```jsx:title=src/components/agility-pageTemplates/MainTemplate.jsx
import React from "react"
import ContentZone from "../../agility/components/ContentZone"
import { getModule } from "../../components/agility-pageModules"

const MainTemplate = props => {
  return (
    <div id="main-template">
      <ContentZone name="MainContentZone" {...props} getModule={getModule} />
    </div>
  )
}
export default MainTemplate
```

[Learn more about How Agility Page Templates Work in Gatsby](https://help.agilitycms.com/hc/en-us/articles/360043038271)

### Resolving Linked Content

While you are sourcing and querying content in gatsby, you are likely to come across a scenario where you need to retrieve a content item and its related content. In Agility CMS, Linked Content fields are used to related content to one another in various ways.

When querying a Post, for example, you may want to also retrieve the details for the Category. On your Post GraphQL node, you may notice a category property, however, it will only contain a contentID reference, not the entire node representing the Category. You'll need to resolve this Linked Content when you need it.

> In the [agilitycms-gatsby-starter](https://github.com/agility/agilitycms-gatsby-starter), we resolve Linked Content by using [Gatsby Resolvers](https://www.gatsbyjs.org/blog/2019-03-04-new-schema-customization/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the [agilitycms-gatsby-starter](https://github.com/agility/agilitycms-gatsby-starter), the Linked Content is resolved by using [Gatsby Resolvers](/docs/reference/graphql-data-layer/schema-customization/#createresolvers-api).
```

Resolvers are added to your `gatsby-node.js` in your site, and they allow you to add a new field to your content node which will handle resolving your Linked Content reference. This means you are telling GraphQL, when you query a specific property on a node, it will actually run a function to go and get your Linked Content and return it.

An example of this can be found [here](https://github.com/agility/agilitycms-gatsby-starter/blob/main/gatsby-node.js) in the starter site:

```js:title=gatsby-node.js
const agility = require("./src/agility/utils")

> //CREATE RESOLVERS
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

exports.createResolvers = args => {
  const {
    createResolvers,
    getNode,
    createNodeId,
    createNode,
    createContentDigest,
    configOptions,
  } = args

>   // here we use resolvers to resolve the data we need for linked content

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  // The data needed for Linked Content is resolved here
```

  const resolvers = {
    // on the 'agilityPost' node type
    agilityPost: {
      // get the sitemap node that represents this item ( i.e. /blog/my-blog-post )
      sitemapNode: agility.getDynamicPageItemSitemapNode(),

      // get the category
      linkedContent_agilityCategory: agility.getLinkedContentItem({
        type: "agilityCategory",
        linkedContentFieldName: "category",
      }),
    },
  }
  createResolvers(resolvers)
}
```

> Now on the agilityPost node, you'll be able to query the category:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now on the `agilityPost` node, you'll be able to query the category:
```

```graphql
query {
  posts: allAgilityPost {
    nodes {
      customFields {
        title
        date(formatString: "MMMM DD, YYYY")
        image {
          url
          label
        }
        content
      }
      linkedContent_agilityCategory {
        customFields {
          title
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

### How Images Work

> With the release of [Gatsby V3](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/blog/gatsby-v3/) and the new [Gatsby Image Plugin](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/plugins/gatsby-plugin-image), we were able to create `gatsby-image-agilitycms`. This is a custom image component that takes images stored within Agility CMS and handles all of the hard parts of displaying responsive images that follow best practices for performance on your website or application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Agility CMS also provides `gatsby-image-agilitycms` as a npm package. This is a custom image component that takes images stored within Agility CMS and handles all of the hard parts of displaying responsive images that follow best practices for performance on your website or application.
```

Doesn't age well
